We are aim to create an Android application to allow relief workers in the field to submit and view disaster-related incident reports to aid in response and relief. The reports would be retrieved and uploaded to the Sahana database to enable relief workers, NGOs and governments to coordinate and analyze disaster relief efforts. Please see the features segment for a detailed breakdown of the types of activities that this application will perform. The application will build on top of  the Sahana Disaster Management System: http://www.sahanafoundation.org/

Our goal is to provide a means for relief workers to report incidents that require disaster relief services using Android phones. Because cell phones have less power requirements, are mobile, and have access to different communication networks (data networks, satellite, etc), they are more accessible and practical for relief workers to use on the field as a tool for disaster management efforts. Currently, there is no mobile application to help gather data about regions where relief workers are currently deployed or keep them up to date about incidents that might have occurred. We aim to integrate our application with Sahana, an open-source, web-based disaster management service, with a python back-end and javascript web interface. Sahana has already been deployed to manage disasters in Sri Lanka, Katrina, Pakistan, etc and has a strong user base.

Our primary customers/clients are as follows: First-responders: Community leaders, medical specialists, and municipal police and fire service that arrive on the scene of a disaster have special skills that they can deploy. However, in a large-scale disaster environment, the demand for their services may outstrip the supply. In cases like this it is invaluable for good lines of communication to exist between first responders and those who can send more resources to the site of a disaster. Hospitals and municipal services can use the data they receive from incident reports to direct life-saving aid to the areas that need the most help. NGOs: Non-governmental organizations are exceptionally important in responding to disasters as they often possess expertise far beyond the local government. They can use this experience to organize volunteers and workers to quickly reach and properly care for those affected by disaster. NGOs can use incident reports to determine where to organize medical aid, shelter, and food relief for disaster victims. Governments: Local and regional governments most often have the greatest available resources to quickly respond to a disaster in their area on a large scale. Governments can use incident reports to assess and dispatch aid to areas that need immediate relief..